The following is a multiple choice question about high school world history.

This question refers to the following information.
In fact, the peculiar aggravation of the Cawnpore massacres was this, that the deed was done by a subject race — by black men who dared to shed the blood of their masters, and that of poor helpless ladies and children. Here we had not only a servile war, but we had a war of religion, a war of race, and a war of revenge, of hope, of national promptings to shake off the yoke of a stranger, and to re-establish the full power of native chiefs, and the full sway of native religions. Whatever the causes of the mutiny and the revolt, it is clear enough that one of the modes by which the leaders, as if by common instinct, determined to effect their end was, the destruction of every white man, woman or child who fell into their hands.
British journalist William Howard Russell, My Indian Mutlny Diary, 1860
Violence, it must be emphasized, was an essential component of the British presence in India. A dominant power is always uneasy with violence directed against it. The right to violence is, therefore, everywhere a privilege that authority enjoys and refuses to share with those under it: power always insists on violence as its exclusive monopoly. British rule in India, as an autocracy, had meticulously constructed a monopoly of violence. The revolt of 1857 shattered that monopoly by matching an official, alien violence by an indigenous violence of the colonized. The bodies of the British had acquired certain dignities in India that were predestined by birth and by the colour of their skin. This was the condition of their domination, of their superiority: rulers and ruled were arranged hierarchically as superior and inferior races, as civilized and uncivilized. And this superiority manifested itself by denying to the Indians a "humanness"; by treating them and conceiving of them as animals.
Rudrangshu Mukherjee, "The Kanpur [Cawnpore] Massacres in India in the Revolt of 1857," 1990
From the perspective of the first passage, the death of British citizens at Cawnpore
A. seems to mark a betrayal of a "higher" race by a "lesser" race.
B. should be seen as a regrettable but avoidable mistake.
C. can be said to have been brought on by the British themselves.
D. was seen by those who killed them as a religious duty.
Answer: